Hello, everyone. Welcome to the section 14 challenge.
Congratulations on finishing
up this part of the course.
I'm in the section 14 workspace.
And you can see that I have
a challenge project, and
this is the basic shell that
I want to talk about now.
There's also a challenge solution
one and a challenge solution
two, and I'll talk about those
projects in just a second.
So the whole idea with this
challenge is for you to overload
operators for the mystring class.
Now I'm providing a basic
mystring class that's got all the
constructors, your move constructors,
your assignment operators.
And I've even overloaded the insertion
and extraction operators just to make
it easier for you to test your code.
So let's talk about this challenge.
The purpose of the challenge for
you to gain experience overloading
operators, and I would recommend that
you do this challenge twice that's
why we have two solutions here.
The first time do it by overloading
the operators using member functions
and then start a new project
and do the same thing but this
time use non-member functions.
Okay, so let's talk about some of the
operators that you could overload.
Now I'm just giving
you an example here.
You can certainly do whatever
you like, whatever makes
sense to you as crazy as you
like, this is just to learn.
So be as creative as you like.
But here's a couple of examples.
We've already done the unary minus
in the slides in the examples.
All it does is makes
a string lowercase.
Here's the example for equality.
We want to compare two
strings, s1 and s2.
Now obviously, this will call
s1.operator,
the equality operator with s2, right.
And this is assuming
the member method.
So remember, all of these operators
that we're talking about get mapped to
some function whether it be a member
function or a non-member function,
just as we talked about in the class.
So that's the equality operator.
Then we're also going to have the
not equal operator, which just checks
to see if two strings are not equal.
So in the case of s1 being Joe and
s2 being Frank, this will return
true because they're not equal.
Then we've got the less than and
greater than operators, which
just test strings lexically.
So for example, if I've got frank and
I've got George, frank will be less
than George since f is less than g.
You get the idea, just
basic string comparison.
We can also do the greater than
equal to or less than or equal
to, I'll leave those up to
you if you choose to do them.
We've got concatenation
which we've already done.
But again, I haven't done any of these
so you can get experience doing them.
I'd recommend that you try to do
them by yourself without going
back to the slides and looking
at the code we've written.
That way you get a little bit
you know better feel for how
to overload the operators and
how they work with the code.
We've got the plus equal operator.
This is an interesting operator
because it's s1 plus equals s2.
So this is the same as
s1 equals s1 plus s2.
Okay, then I've got this operator here.
And this one may be a little confusing.
So I'm going to take a
second to talk about it.
The idea here is that
we have s2 times 3.
And this is an integer here.
And the idea would be if I have s2
being abc, then s2 times 3 is going
to give me three copies of abc.
It's going to repeat that
string whatever it is n times
where n is this guy right here.
So this could be a
pretty handy operator.
So s1 equals s2 times 3, what's
going to happen is, you're
going to get abc, abc, abc, and
then it gets assigned to s1.
Okay, so the last one is
the star equal operator.
Here we're going to repeat the string
on the left-hand side and times.
So it's really simple.
So if s1 is abc, then s1 star
equal 4 gives me 4 abcs, not 5.
We're not really assigning
back to the original s1.
If you want to do that, that
would be perfectly fine.
But in this case, it's really
easy to think repeat s1 four times
and store it right back in s1.
So it's pretty handy.
And then the last operators we'll
talk about are the increment
and decrement operators.
I haven't really talked about
them too much in this class,
but I'll talk about them now.
And the idea here is that -- remember,
these are increment and decrement
operators and we have pre and
post versions of each one.
Now assuming that we've got
member versions and that's
what I'm talking about here,
member method versions of these.
These are the semantics for this.
You'll notice we have
operator plus plus.
And then we've got operator
plus plus with an int.
That int is not used.
It's not even named,
it's just a placeholder.
And the compiler is using that
behind the scenes to be able to
tell the difference between these
two prototypes if you will because
otherwise it'd be exactly the same and
it wouldn't know which one to call.
So this guy right here
is the pre-increment.
And the way that this works is
the semantics are really clear.
You do whatever you
want increment to do.
I'm making it make all the
characters uppercase in
the in the current object.
And then you return this because
you're actually modifying
that object before you go
back to the caller, right.
That's what pre-increment does.
Now the semantics for post-increment
are a little bit different.
And let me just scroll up just a
little here so you can probably
see it a little more clearly.
Here we go.
Now the semantics for the post
increment are a little bit different.
We need to make a copy
of what we've got now.
Then we call operator plus plus.
Notice that this doesn't
have an int in there, right.
So we're calling pre-increment.
That's really important.
If you call post increment, you end up
with a recursive loop here and you're
never going to get out of there.
So what we're doing is we're
incrementing, we're doing a
pre-increment, and then we're
returning this temporary
object that we saved, which
is the old copy, right.
And that's exactly what the the
whole idea with post increment means.
So that's the semantics of that.
And then the rest is
pretty straightforward.
Have fun.
Think of some other operators
that might be useful.
It doesn't matter if
they make sense or not.
This is all about learning
how to overload operators.
So be as crazy and
creative as you want to be.
Some hints.
Take advantage of the std
string compare function
for the equality operators.
Remember that guy returns 0 if
they're equal, negative something
or positive something if they're
greater than or less than.
I'll let you guys look that
up so you can learn about it.
Another thing is the plus
equal and star equals
operators should return a ref.
Okay, that's really important
because we want to be able to chain,
and we don't want extra copies.
Finally, when you're doing
plus sequel and star equal,
rather than duplicate all your
code again, use plus and star.
We've already used those operators.
We've already implemented them,
and if you do that these operators,
when you go to overlay these
operators right here, the code
really becomes almost trivial.
It's just a line or two of code.
It's really, really straightforward.
One more thing I want to mention
is when you do your increment and
decrement operators, make sure that
the pre-increment right here returns
a ref, and make sure that the post
increment does not return a ref, it
should return a mystring by value.
Okay, so that's basically it.
Let me go over the mystring
class so that you can see
where the starting point is.
This should be really familiar
now after this section.
There's the mystring class.
You can see that I've overloaded
the insertion and extraction
operators as friend functions.
Here's mystring class, and
it's got nothing that you
wouldn't expect, right.
It's got all the constructors, the
move constructor, the assignment
operators, both the copy and the move
and your getters on your display.
You shouldn't even have to use
display anymore because now
we've got this guy right here.
Okay, so that's about it.
If you look at implementation, again,
it's exactly like we've done in class.
The one thing that I have done
is I've commented out these
output statements using copy
assignment using move assignments.
But I left them in there in case
you want to uncomment them and
trace your code or you can use
the debugger to trace your code.
I'll leave that up to you.
The last thing is here's the main.
Here's a real sample name.
And I've commented the entire main
out so that you can uncomment as you
go or create your own test cases and.
Here's some simple
test cases for this.
By no means, these are exhaustive
but they'll certainly you know begin
to test your overload operators.
So let me go through a couple of them.
You can see right here, I've
got a string a frank, I've
got a string b frank they're. They're the same string right,
so in this case, I'm comparing a to b.
I expect that to be true
since they're both frank.
And I'm asking is a not equal
to b, well, that's false
because they are equal, right.
So what you see over here in the
comments is what I expect as output.
Now we create b as george.
Remember, a is still frank.
Are a and b equal?
No, they're not.
Is a not equal to b?
That's correct.
Is a less than b?
Well, a is frank b is george, the f
comes before the g, so this is true.
Is a greater than b?
This is false.
You get the idea.
So these are just some sample test
cases that you can use along the way.
And then I've got some other ones that
are testing the the negation operator
right here, the unary minus, right.
So s1 is frank.
And then I'm just saying s1 equals
minus s1, which makes s1 lowercase.
So when I output it, I
expect frank in lowercase.
There's my concatenation operator.
Right now frank is
lowercase that's s1.
I'm just adding a bunch of
asterisks to the end, displaying it.
That's what I expect.
I'm doing it again, but this
time I'm using plus equal,
which just means added these
dashes to the left-hand side.
Well, the left-hand side
is this guy right here.
So you can see the dash
is being added right here.
Okay, here's another example.
S2 is 1 2 3 4 5,
and what this says is repeat s2 three times
and then store it into s1.
So when i display s1, I'm seeing 1 2 3
4 5, 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5, three times.
And I think there's a couple
of more test cases down
here that we can talk about.
And again, I encourage you to come
up with your own test cases and write
some tests that really test this
and exercise the code so you can be
sure that it's working correctly.
Here's another one s3 is abcdef.
And the semantics of this one
just says hey repeat whatever's
on the left five times.
So whatever's on the left is abcdef.
So we're going 1 2 3 4 5.
Okay, now here's some tests
with the increment operators.
I haven't done the decrement operator.
I'll leave that totally up to you.
We already have a unitary
minus that makes it lowercase.
But you could do whatever you like.
Remember, we're programmers.
We can do anything.
So you can make that decrement
operator behave how however you like.
So let's take a look at
this mystring s is frank.
And then I'm doing an increment
in this case a pre-increment.
Remember, when we have plus plus s or
s plus plus all alone on a line, it
means exactly the same thing, right.
The pre the post don't mean
much it's just increment s.
So in this case, you can see
s is frank with a capital f.
Then I'm saying pre-increment
s at this point.
When I output s, I expect all
uppercase characters, which
is what our semantics say.
Over here, I'm decrementing
s using unity minus.
So I'm putting it right
back to lowercase.
You could make -- you could
do something like minus minus s if you like
to do the same
thing as the unary minus.
But again, I'll leave
that up to you guys.
And now I've got result.
And here I'm saying result plus
-- equals, sorry pre-increment s.
And remember, s right
now is frank lowercase.
That's what s is.
So I want to pre-increment s
that means I want to make s
uppercase and then assign it.
That's what the pre-increment does.
Make s uppercase then assign it.
So when I display both those values,
I expect them both to be uppercase
and that's what's happening here.
And let me scroll up just a
little bit right around line 54.
And in this case, we're
doing a post increment.
Again, here it's the same
as the pre-increment.
So I expect frank to be uppercase.
Now I make frank lower case again.
So s is frank in lowercase.
And now what we're doing is
result equals s post incremented.
So what we do is first we assign s
over to result, then we increment s.
So when I assign s over to result,
result should be lowercase frank,
and you can see it is right here
and s should be now uppercase
franc because I just moved it over.
Okay, so there you go.
That's a quick intro to the challenge.
This could be a pretty long challenge.
Take it one step at a time.
Do the operators do
the easy ones first.
I would suggest to do the quality
operators first because they're
pretty straightforward and then make
sure that you do your star operator,
which means repeat in this case
and your concatenation operator.
Do those before you do plus equal
and star equal, that way you can
take advantage of them and really
make the code much, much simpler.
Okay, so I'll be back.
Have a go at this.
And when you're done,
you can come back.
And solution one will be the
version where we've got member
methods, and solution two is the
version where we've got non-member
methods or basically non-member
functions global functions.
All right, so have fun and good luck.